.\" Manpage for sysrepoctl.
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii sysrepoctl.1
.\"

.TH SYSREPOCTL 1 "2016-07-14" "Sysrepo"
.SH NAME
sysrepoctl \- Sysrepo datastore control tool
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysrepoctl
\-\-\fBl\fPist [\-\-\fBL\fPevel=\fINUM\fP]
.br

.B sysrepoctl
\-\-\fBi\fPnstall [\-\-yan\fBg\fP=\fIFILE\fP] [\-\-yi\fBn\fP=\fIFILE\fP]
[\-\-\fBo\fPwner=\fIOWNER\fP] [\-\-\fBp\fPermissions=\fIPERMISSIONS\fP]
[\-\-\fBs\fPearch-dir=\fIDIRECTORY\fP] [\-\-\fBL\fPevel=\fINUM\fP]
.br

.B sysrepoctl
\-\-\fBu\fPninstall \-\-\fBm\fPodule=\fIMODULE\fP [\-\-\fBr\fPevision=\fIREVISION\fP]
[\-\-\fBL\fPevel=\fINUM\fP]
.br

.B sysrepoctl
\-\-\fBc\fPhange \-\-\fBm\fPodule=\fIMODULE\fP [\-\-\fBr\fPevision=\fIREVISION\fP]
[\-\-\fBo\fPwner=\fIOWNER\fP] [\-\-\fBp\fPermissions=\fIPERMISSIONS\fP]
[\-\-\fBL\fPevel=\fINUM\fP]
.br

.B sysrepoctl
\-\-feature-\fBe\fPnable=\fIFEATURE\fP \-\-\fBm\fPodule=\fIMODULE\fP [\-\-\fBL\fPevel=\fINUM\fP]
.br

.B sysrepoctl
\-\-feature-\fBd\fPisable=\fIFEATURE\fP \-\-\fBm\fPodule=\fIMODULE\fP [\-\-\fBL\fPevel=\fINUM\fP]
.br

.B sysrepoctl
\-\-\fBh\fPelp
.br

.B sysrepoctl
\-\-\fBv\fPersion
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsysrepoctl\fP is a command-line tool for the management of YANG modules
installed in Sysrepo datastore. It can be used for installing of new YANG
modules to Sysrepo, uninstalling existing ones, listing current state of
installed modules, enabling / disabling of YANG features within the module
or changing module access permissions.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Outputs usage help and exists.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\^\-version
Outputs the version number of
.B sysrepoctl
and exit.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\^\-list
Lists YANG modules installed in sysrepo (note that \fBConformance\fR Installed implies also Implemented).
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\^\-install
Installs specified schema into sysrepo (\fB--yang\fP or \fB--yin\fP must be specified).
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\^\-init
Initializes already installed YANG/YIN schema (\fB--module\fP must be specified).
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\^\-uninstall
Uninstalls specified schema from sysrepo (\fB--module\fP must be specified).
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\^\-change
Changes specified module in sysrepo (\fB--module\fP must be specified).
.TP
.BI \-e " FEATURE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-feature-enable=" FEATURE
Enables the YANG feature named \fIFEATURE\fP within a module in sysrepo
(\fB--module\fP must be specified).
.TP
.BI \-d " FEATURE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-feature-disable=" FEATURE
Disables the YANG feature named \fIFEATURE\fP  within a module in sysrepo
(\fB--module\fP must be specified).
.TP
.BI \-g " FILE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-yang=" FILE
Specifies path to the file with schema in YANG format
(used by \fB--install\fP operation).
.TP
.BI \-n " FILE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-yin=" FILE
Specifies path to the file with schema in YIN format
(used by \fB--install\fP operation).
.TP
.BI \-m " MODULE" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-module=" MODULE
Name of the module to be operated on
(used by \fB--init\fP, \fB--uninstall\fP, \fB--change\fP,
\fB--feature-enable\fP, \fB--feature-disable\fP operations)
.TP
.BI \-r " REVISION" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-revision=" REVISION
Revision of the module to be operated on
(used by --init, --uninstall operations).
.TP
.BI \-o " OWNER" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-owner=" OWNER
Owner user and group of the module's data in chown format
(used by --install, --init, --change operations).
.TP
.BI \-p " PERMISSIONS" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-permissions=" PERMISSIONS
Access permissions of the module's data in chmod format
(used by --install, --init, --change operations).
.TP
.BI \-s " DIRECTORY" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-search-dir=" DIRECTORY
Directory to search for included/imported modules. Defaults to the directory
with the YANG file being installed (used by --install operation).
.TP
.BI \-L " NUM" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-level=" NUM
Set verbosity level of logging:
.RS
.IP \fB0\fP
(default) all logging turned off
.IP \fB1\fP
log only error messages
.IP \fB2\fP
log error and warning messages
.IP \fB3\fP
log error, warning and informational messages
.IP \fB4\fP
log everything, including development debug messages
.
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP \[bu] 2
Install a new module by specifying YANG file, ownership and access permissions:
    sysrepoctl --install --yang=ietf-interfaces.yang --owner=admin:admin --permissions=644
.IP \[bu]
Change the ownership and permissions of an existing YANG module:
    sysrepoctl --change --module=ietf-interfaces --owner=admin:admin --permissions=644
.IP \[bu]
Enable a feature within a YANG module:
    sysrepoctl --feature-enable=if-mib --module=ietf-interfaces
.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsysrepocfg\fP(1)
.br

http://www.sysrepo.org (Sysrepo homepage)
.br

https://github.com/sysrepo/sysrepo (the GitHub base for Sysrepo)
.
.SH AUTHORS
Rastislav Szabo <raszabo@cisco.com>, Lukas Macko <lmacko@cisco.com>,
Milan Lenco <milan.lenco@pantheon.tech>
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2016 Cisco Systems, Inc.
